Issue #120 - Add inband management to Day 2 Ops (#124)
aristanetworks/avd-workshops: workshops/avd-lab-guide.md

Finally, we can go out to our forked copy of the repository and delete the **add-leafs** branch.

> Now that the work we did for nothing has been fully wiped out, we can move on to our last change.

Reviewer: Considering altering this or removing. It sounds a bit negative :)

## **Step 8 - Day 2 Operations Continued**

### Inband Management

> In the lab environment we are using for this class, all switches are accessible through the dedicated out-of-band management port.  Additionally, in production environments, dedicated out-of-band management fabrics are always the recommended way to segregate all management functionality and access to the devices.  However, what happens if you don't have a dedicated management fabric?  What if even though you do have that fabric, you would like some other type of non-console management access in the event the management fabric is unavailable.  Enter the widely used, inband management functionality.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the lab environment, we use for this class, all switches are accessible through the dedicated out-of-band management port.  Additionally, dedicated out-of-band management fabrics are always the recommended way to segregate all management functionality and device access in production environments.  However, what happens if you need a dedicated management fabric?  What if, even though you do have that fabric, you would like some other type of non-console management access in the event the management fabric is unavailable?  Enter the widely used inband management functionality.  
```

> As we have learned from working through the AVD labs, when building a Layer 2 Leaf/Spine fabric, all the VLAN SVIs are created and live solely on the spines switches.  This presents a slight hurdle to us, because inband management uses a VLAN SVI, in the specified management network, on every switch, spines and leafs.  The spines still need to host the gateway for this inband management network, and a static route needs to be created on every leaf.  Trying to manipulate the data model in the network services vars file to accomplish inband management would not be as clean or efficient, and it still would not get the management SVIs created on each leaf switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we have learned from working through the AVD labs, when building a Layer 2 Leaf/Spine fabric, all the VLAN SVIs are created and live solely on the spines switches.  This presents a slight hurdle to us because inband management uses a VLAN SVI in the specified management network on every switch, spine, and leaf.  The spines still need to host the gateway for this inband management network, and a static route needs to be created on every leaf.  Trying to manipulate the data model in the network services vars file to accomplish inband management would not be as clean or efficient, and it still would not get the management SVIs created on each leaf switch.
```

``` yaml
<node_type_keys.key>:

  # Define variables for all nodes of this type.
  defaults:

    # VLAN number used for inband management on L2 switches (switches using port-channel trunks as uplinks).
    # When using 'inband_mgmt_subnet' the VLAN and SVIs will be created automatically on this switch as well as all 'uplink_switches'.
    # When using 'inband_mgmt_ip' the VLAN and SVI will only be created on this device and added to uplink trunk. The VLAN and SVI on the parent switches must be created using network services data models.
    inband_mgmt_vlan: <int; default=4092>

    # Optional IP subnet assigned to inband management SVIs on L2 switches (switches using port-channels as uplinks).
    # SVI IP address will be assigned as follows:
    # virtual-router: <subnet> + 1
    # l3leaf A      : <subnet> + 2 (same IP on all l3leaf A)
    # l3leaf B      : <subnet> + 3 (same IP on all l3leaf B)
    # l2leafs       : <subnet> + 3 + <l2leaf id>
    # GW on l2leafs : <subnet> + 1
    # Assign range larger than total l2leafs + 5

    # This setting is applicable to L2 switches (switches using port-channel trunks as uplinks).
    inband_mgmt_subnet: <str>
```

> With just these two key value pairs, AVD will automatically create the inband management VLAN, its associated SVIs on the spines, the vARP virtual IP for the subnet gateway, the VLAN and its SVIs on the leafs, and the static route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these two key-value pairs, AVD will automatically create the inband management VLAN, its associated SVIs on the spines, the vARP virtual IP for the subnet gateway, the VLAN and its SVIs on the leaves, and the static route.
```

> Lets get to work creating our inband management network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's get to work on creating our inband management network.
```

#### **Branch Time**

Following our development best practices, let's create a new branch for our work. We'll call this branch **inband-mgmt**.

```bash
git switch -c inband-mgmt
```

> Now that we are on our new working branch, lets add our data model and render our configs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we are on our new working branch, let's add our data model and render our configurations.
```

#### **Data Model Creation**

Next, let's add our inband management data model into `sites/site_1/group_vars/SITE1_FABRIC.yml`.

This will be the actual data model we will drop into our `SITE1_FABRIC` vars file:

```yaml
inband_mgmt_vlan: 3000
inband_mgmt_subnet: 10.255.255.0/24
```

The data model should be nested in the vars file like this:

```yaml
# Leaf Switches
leaf:
  defaults:
    platform: cEOS

>     < insert inband management keys here >

Reviewer 2: I would suggest adding the needed keys here and eliminate the the 2 lines above.

Reviewer 2: Have you tested this data models work in the ATD lab?  How are you showing them how to connect to the new in-band mgmt address or you just showing that it gets created?

Author: > Have you tested this data models work in the ATD lab? How are you showing them how to connect to the new in-band mgmt address or you just showing that it gets created?

Just how it gets created.  I guess you could connect to it from the linux host but not sure its worth it.

Reviewer 2: Has it been tested in the ATD Lab environment?

Author: > Has it been tested in the ATD Lab environment?

No but I have that exact data model running in a production environment, and its not new.  Dont see why it wouldnt work.

Reviewer 2: The ATD Labs have been updated to AVD 4.5 and ansible-core 2.15.5, so it would be worth testing your data model before we merge this.

    # Underlay Routing Protocol - ran on Spines
    ##################################################################

    underlay_routing_protocol: OSPF

    ##################################################################
    # WAN/Core Edge Links
    ##################################################################

    core_interfaces:
      p2p_links:

        - ip: [ 10.0.0.29/31, 10.0.0.28/31 ]
          nodes: [ s1-spine1, WANCORE ]
          interfaces: [ Ethernet7, Ethernet2 ]
          include_in_underlay_protocol: true

        - ip: [ 10.0.0.33/31, 10.0.0.32/31 ]
          nodes: [ s1-spine1, WANCORE ]
          interfaces: [ Ethernet8, Ethernet2 ]
          include_in_underlay_protocol: true

        - ip: [ 10.0.0.31/31, 10.0.0.30/31 ]
          nodes: [ s1-spine2, WANCORE ]
          interfaces: [ Ethernet7, Ethernet2 ]
          include_in_underlay_protocol: true

        - ip: [ 10.0.0.35/31, 10.0.0.34/31 ]
          nodes: [ s1-spine2, WANCORE ]
          interfaces: [ Ethernet8, Ethernet2 ]
          include_in_underlay_protocol: true

    ```

Next - Let's build the configurations!

```bash
make build-site-1
```

> Go ahead and review the newly rendered configurations and documentation to see what config was rendered for the spines and leafs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review the newly rendered configurations and documentation to see what was rendered for the spines and leafs.
```

Now, deploy the configurations to Site 1 switches.

``` bash
make deploy-site-1
```

Login to your switches to verify the current configs (`show run`) match the ones created in `intended/configs` folder.

> Also check out that the new inband management VLAN 3000 SVI exists on the spines and leafs with their auto-allocated IPs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, check out that the new inband management VLAN 3000 SVI exists on the spines and leaves with their auto-allocated IPs.
```
